Welcome back in in this lesson we're going to take what we've learned in the previous lessons and build
a safe cracker again.
So just to the scheme is to guess all three of these numbers.
So typically it wouldn't be displayed to the user that user would come in and they would have to enter
in three random numbers and they would get returned back to their guess was that there should be higher
or that there should be lower.
And we see by going by this it gets three.
So let's try five.
This one is hirers Wellsville into seven.
And this one is lower so low to 1 and we'll see what the results are.
So what we got correct.
We've got five which batches with this value and these two are lower.
So we know that this one is higher than the three that we initially try.
So let's go ahead and try five.
And then the last one is lower still solor than one is zero.
So we see that now we try 5 5 0 and we were actually able to guess the code so we got it correct.
So basically that's the game and the function gets initiated by the trye code.
We've got all three of these inputs for all three different numbers and we've got an output area so
that we can see what's happening within the game.
So let's start by setting up our initial values for this game.
And within this game we're going to use a combination of local scopes for an array of value.
So these are going to be the ones that are going to contain the inputs and we're also going to use a
global scale.
So for the global scope we need to initially set up what our court is going to be.
So I'm going to give it a plain read and I'm going to just set it up create that rate.
So it is creating a blank.
They're called C-code.
Another value that I need to set up is account.
So you started this count at zero.
And this is the one that is actually going to check to see how many of the items the user got.
Correct.
And if you've got all three correct then we know that they completed the game and that won the game.
So next we also need to set up our object or put object.
So just as we talked many times before.
This document get element by ID.
What's that put in there so that our output variable will contain the output object.
And now that's also set up objects for See 1.
So that's going to be the code one that's being guessed.
So we get element ID and so from here you have to pick up the values what we need to pick up the values
at the time that the function gets fired off.
So for now we're just going to hold all of those objects and we're going to grab the values within the
function.
So if we count them outside of the function then we're actually not going to get.
We're not going to get the value at the time when the function is triggered.
And that's what we need.
We need to get that value of the time a triggering.
So now that we set up our basic variables we need to actually build up our set of numbers and we want
to do this randomly so that there is no pre-set number of numbers.
And from this I'm going to create an array for variable x equals zero.
And we're going to loop it will X is less than 3 and we're going to increment x.
So making use of loops which we saw earlier and we need to actually post random numbers from 0 to 9
within our code range so this is the one we created.
So what I want you to do now is Plus the video I use the code that I set up make the same connections
here and ready to go and add in to the code array create an array with three separate numbers from 0
to.
And go ahead.
Pause the video.
Try it and I'll show the solution.
So the solution to it into an array is to rename and push.
And we need to push our random values is going to be a math floor.
And then here we're going around the math random method.
So there's a built in it is used before and we want a number from zero.
That's we're going to multiply by 9.
So that's a solution for there.
And at this point once we loop through there we can put that as in or H-2 else and just what I've done
over here and let's put that so we can actually see the code that gets randomly generated.
So let's go back refreshed the page and refresh refresh.
So there we go.
So you've got a random code.
And so as I said this typically wouldn't be shown to the user.
You get the user to either guess higher or lower.
So now we need to build out of functionalities so we need to set up an array called croc's so that the
user can actually trigger the cranking of that code with what the variables that they have sitting with
and the object here.
So let's go ahead and we're going to count to zero.
So this is going to be our way to tell if the user has guessed the right values.
So every time we get a rate number we're going to increment count by one less than I want it to do is
I wanted to grab all of these guest numbers and we're going actually put them into an array.
So it's up and.
Yes.
So if that array of name they're going to call it.
And we're going to touch it to see one value see two value and see three new.
And the reason we need to set this up within the function is otherwise if we grab the values here we're
not going to be able to get current values when functions are actually being triggered.
So that's why we need to set it up locally or we could use an external or global function a global array
but then we constantly have to write into that.
And since we're not going to be using these guess values and it's kind of a function the best practice
is to keep them locally.
So this is the function scope.
And of course once this function finishes executing all of these local values that are contained only
within the function are going to be destroyed.
So once the function finishes we don't really have any use for them because these are expected to be
changing.
So the next thing that I want to do is I want to do it through these values and compare them to the
values that we have in C-code.
So let's do that.
So let's set up another another group here so we're going to loop through all of the values starting
at zero and we're going to loop through while X is less than let's do this dynamically so it's less
than the length of C-code and increment X by 1.
Let's write our function code.
So what I want to ideally do is actually I want to have another function that's actually going to check
the values and return back the values.
So let's let's set this up where we put in under age DML sort of update enraged him out of that output
with the guess and returned.
If it's higher or lower and let's give this function a name check no and pass a few values.
So the first value that we want to pass over is the users guess.
So we'll pass that value.
And the other argument that we wanted to pass here is we want to pass the actual actual value that we
want to make use of from the array.
So let's grab from code or C.
And let's pass that as an argument as well.
So now to set up the function to pick up these arguments so go ahead.
Pause the video and create a brand new function call check number that's going to take these two arguments
in and then compare them to see if one is larger than the other and return back lower or higher.
And then also the number I guess is correct.
And we're just going to return back that number.
So trying that out and I'll show you the solution coming up.
So the opportunity to try to creating that function.
This is the check number function and we did say that we needed to pass those two parameters into it
because we've got them as arguments over here.
So we're just picking those up and passing them in.
So there would be no way that this function could know where we are within the loop without us actually
passing that information.
We create a guess locally so that gas is only available within the function crack.
So it wouldn't be accessible through a check number and that's what we're passing them here within the
arguments and picking them up as parameters under check no function.
So now we need to do something with those check Nomes.
So let's create our first test and we'll see if a is larger than B and if it is then we're going to
return back that the number is
isolate lower so the cast and the actual real value is lower.
And one thing to know about a raid is whenever you do a return it's got to stop executing the rest of
the code.
So this is a way to break out of a function that you do in return.
And then it's a worry about any of the rest of the code.
So if the statement is true then it's something going to return back out if it's not true.
Then we've got a shot at it and this time let's do a is less than B at this time we're going to return
to the lower.
That basically means that the value is actually higher.
So we get the return back H to the user.
And then lastly we need to set up and that basically if a is equal to B then what we're going to return
about is where Return about the value of a.
Or we could return the value of v.
So that basically means that we've got the gas range and we're just the return of the number.
There's nothing more that they need to do.
There is one other thing that we need to do over here.
And besides returning the value we need to increment the count.
And this was our way of telling us to check to see if the user if it just all three correct.
And if they have then we're starting off with that in this function of this global value.
So our count is zero.
So we run through here and if we increment the count.
So basically that means that after we finish this loop if the value of count is equal to 3 then that
means that they actually the users actually solved the puzzle.
So let's check to see if count is equal to 3 and if it is then we know that we're putting in our age
to develop and we're just going to say
to.
At that point the user can pretty much finish the game and we cut out even more to finish that up.
And if the count is not equal to three then we're just going to add in a line break into that output.
So that's I mean they use that guilty to yes again.
So let's go ahead and refresh our browser and try it.
So the random numbers are 8 7 so.
So again this is something that we're going to get rid of for these are.
But this is just Wohler practicing just to make sure that everything is running OK.
So is a good idea to actually see the solution.
So I got to start with five five five.
And we know that the actual values are higher so it's higher than five higher than five and higher than
so let's try 7 7 7 and we know that the first number is higher.
The second number is right a third number is right.
So we know that there's two numbers that are higher than us and 7 8 9.
So if we try nine and we know that this number should be lower.
So lastly let's try eight seven seven and we just so we are correct.
And that completes the end.
So go ahead.
Try this out for yourself and see if you can set this up.
And also let's get rid of that output enraged him.
So we just set the user actually has no idea what the numbers are.
So all of these numbers are higher.
Now try 7 7 7 and we see that we've got one of them.
These ones are lower.
So these are six and six and we are able to guess it within three tries.
So you can move up to eight this game and count how many tries it took the user to finally guess the
number you had an additional number as well so you can just add another number here within the code
to make it even more difficult.
And all of this functionality will work the same way all you'd have to do is increase the loop values
here in order to accommodate that new that new value.
So go ahead try to code it and then make some improvements on the code in another.
Number two gas as well as add an ability to count how many guesses the user has gone through and how
many guesses it took them to finally guess the right answer.
So try it for yourself in the next lesson.
We're going to look at more.
You can do it with functions.